A1004AX2J2HXGL	B0007RT9LC	May 30, 2005	3	4	5.0	The film speaks for itself	 The only thing missing is a presentation of the original 78 minute film "Some Folks Call it a Sling Blade" (1993) which later the feature length film was created from.  Can't have it all, I guess.  Perhaps when they release the extra-special edition?  If you like Bill Bob in this film, you should also check out "Dead Man" (he's in exactly one hilarious scene) and "The Man Who Wasn't There".    Approximate Run Time: 148 minutes  Bonus Feature(s): * Feature Commentary With Writer/Director/Actor Billy Bob Thornton * Mr. Thornton Goes To Hollywood * Bravo Profiles: Billy Bob Thornton * A Roundtable Discussion With Billy Bob Thornton, Dwight Yoakam, Mickey Jones, And Producer David Bushell * A Conversation With Billy Bob Thornton And Robert Duvall * A Conversation With Robert Duvall * A Conversation With Billy Bob Thornton And Composer Daniel Lanois * The Return Of Karl * On The Set: Billy Bob At Work; Doyle's Band: The Johnsons; Doyle Gets Pummeled; "Doyle's Dead" With Introduction By Billy Bob Thornton * SLING BLADE Reviews  Technical Features: * Color * 1.85:1 Aspect Ratio * Closed Captioned * Region 1 * Spanish Subtitles     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00028HBKM	January 17, 2005	9	22	1.0	"Life beyond the thunderdome"	 I cried when I saw The PASSION OF THE CHRIST - how could you not? I sat there and watched a man brutalized for two hours. Everyone around me was crying - it felt like we were all tuned in to the proceedings of a televised execution.  I was a little confused by the time it was all over & as I was leaving the theater, I was even more so: I saw parents walking out with their children.  Jesus Christ's teachings were left in the wings, the significance of his life locked out of the script almost entirely.  Hardly a first impression for young children.  The ONLY things I found at all interesting about the PASSION OF THE CHRIST: the use of the authentic languages from the time period (Latin & Aramaic) and the actors bringing this movie to life.  James Caviezel's performance in Terrence Malick's THE THIN RED LINE was simply mesmerizing, and he used a similar pallet of emotion for his performance here.  I was raised a Roman Catholic - so viewing the Stations of the Cross was nothing new to me.  To suggest this film version of that seasonal meditation is a "masterwork" - simply is absurd.  So what WAS the point of this film, what were we to draw from its brutal imagery?  There was no inspiration in Mel Gibson's film for me, no arc of understanding - only suffering and death.  Which led me to consider their goal may have been to create a vivid emotional experience, intended to lift us out of numbness and inspire reflection on faith to get us through this life: televised warfare, beheadings on the internet, stories of sickness and shootings on the nightly news, etc.  Perhaps, but I don't think so.  A fleeting, knee-jerk reaction with some tears shed on queue, and then those emotions are safely placed back on the shelf until the next time.  Complicity and silence have always gone hand in hand: it's easy to damn this world, condemn what we see as different from our own huddled beliefs; allow selfishness and insincerity to decimate through clouds of frankincense and joyous hymns.  Salvation?  Maybe.      The infamous THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST, directed by Martin Scorsese, is a "masterwork" of filmmaking. The film not only inspires the heart, but also prods the mind.  I could feel the breath of those images, allowing me to enter the world it created and truly feel something more than myself.  It was not an epiphany; it was a fresh view, it was an enlightened dream of another world, yet strangely our own.  The film didn't plague the audience with blood and horrors; it dramatizes the passion and relevance of the story.  I've come to understand and believe Jesus Christ to be among the greatest teachers this world has known, who suffered the tortures of the damned to inspire his vision of peace, determination for truth and humility in us all - ideals that have taken a back seat to robotic, indignant servitude to skewed "moral" interests.    The LAST TEMPTATION was based on the book by Nikos Kazantzakis - from which the filmmakers created a thoughtful, passionate re-examination of one of the greatest stories ever told.  Mr. Scorsese, in his youth, had almost joined the priesthood; but chose to explore and express his passion through the cinema.  I saw no blasphemy in his images - only a powerful film exploring faith in ourselves and the world.  Often cited as trash, garbage and against popular faith - this film truly offers a story of FAITH we can all profit from, regardless of what we believe.       
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00062IVM6	January 17, 2005	4	7	5.0	I'm making my lunch!	 WILD AT HEART on DVD.  I've been waiting on this day for a long, long, long time.    The first time I saw this movie, I was floored.  Few movies excel in creating such an atmosphere of heat and humid drama on screen so well (DO THE RIGHT THING & STRAY DOG come to mind).  Mr. Lynch brings the raw, kinetic lives of Barry Gifford's characters to the screen in his own particular way & everything about this movie just screams rock and roll and dangerous things.  The design of the film recalls elements of film noir, motorcycle and B-movies from the fifties and even a dusting of the gritty seventies.  As for the cast?  Diane Ladd can wear puke & fly on a broomstick with sparkling brilliance.  Harry Dean Stanton ain't nothin' but a hound dog; Willem Dafoe, rivaled only by Dennis Hopper, draws a wicked flame of evil as Bobby Peru - his scene with Laura Dern is incredible; Nicolas Cage channels alot of the same power that E had & Laura Dern fills her red ruby slippers with a delicious, trailer trash sweetness.  Marcello Santos, Drop Shadow, Reggie, Mr. Reindeer, Uncle Pooch - characters all, shipwrecked on planet Earth.  If you enjoy film noir, trashy romances - then say no more - this is just the one for you.  The DVD transfer looks spectacular, the extras are juicy and the only thing lacking would be a commentary track, I guess.  But the movie is certainly good enough to speak for itself.    OK - in reference to another reviewer (ixta coytl) - David Lynch guilty of plagiarism?  A dog with a hand in its mouth is most certainly, most definitely taken from YOJIMBO.  So what, it doesn't warrant "borderline plagiarism"?  At the end of GOODFELLAS, the very last image of Joe Pesci shooting at the screen is taken from a silent film called THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY (Edwin S. Porter).  GOODFELLAS is now an imitation of that film?  Artists borrow and steal from each other constantly; the above examples are hardly suggesting plagiarism.  Also, checking your characters into a motel isn't grounds for plagiarism either - even if it is from the great TOUCH OF EVIL.  The "seedy motel" has a long tradition in films that fall under the genres of film noir, southern gothic or the classic road movie.  Everyone needs to stop somewhere for the night sooner or later.    So, keep on kickin' (...) on the dance floor & tellin' EVERYONE what's on your almost perfect mind...      
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00064LJVE	January 13, 2005	5	15	1.0	Into the woods	 M. is a hack, a second-place magician in a high school talent show.  He's drawn comparisons to Hitchcock and Spielberg - in the same sentence no less?  Resting on the laurels of exactly ONE good movie, he manages to eek out a career for himself.  Since THE SIXTH SENSE, his movies have gotten progressively worse.  UNBREAKABLE was fair at best.  An interesting idea with a dull, rumbling ride to the conclusion.  SIGNS was a very rough movie to watch.  The characters were cookie-cutter samples of human emotion and conflict - toss in a guy in an alien suit and you have what exactly?  A bad joke.  Now, THE VILLAGE...    Mr. Shyamalan's "entertainments" are about as mediocre as you can get - and I really do wish I could enjoy his movies.  They seem to lack something.  Walking out of this one, I felt like I had just witnessed a badly executed parlor trick disguised as a vague "social commentary" piece.  Bryce Howard is a wonderful actress; I hope to see more of her in the future.  She takes a lifeless character and gives her depth.  The other cast members also played their parts wonderfully - too bad it wasn't another movie.  The trailer seemed creepy; a dark fairytale or ghost story set in the 19th century.  Nice idea, haven't seen one of those in a while.  I pay the eight bucks, and watched this thing unfold:   THE VILLAGE had absolutely no suspense, no tension - a few cheap scares along the way - but nothing to make the "trick" ending worth the ride.  I won't give it away for those who haven't seen the movie, but the whole story is so flat and badly contrived, that it doesn't really matter.  The pay off was in the vein of the "Twilight Zone" & when it was revealed, I could almost hear the squeaky curtain and see the wizard furiously working the controls to an out-of-control smoke machine.  I'm not looking for depth or stories that cleverly draw an allegory of our world every time I go to the movies, but would like something above... this?  Pretty cinematography, composition and cheap thrills do NOT make good movies - that would be like having a handsome nose with loose teeth and no eyeballs.    I read a review that stated this movie was "smart... an intelligent thrill-ride".  No it wasn't - it was awful rubbish.  And reading some of the other reviews here, I get the impression they'd enjoy watching chocolate balls melt in their hand... or it's completely possible I saw another movie with the same title and premise?   A twisted ending, to be sure.                 
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B0002GMSC0	January 6, 2005	15	15	1.0	koo-koo-ca-choo	 Where do people come up with this garbage?    It is so obvious she's about as real an artist as her sister (rich & dumb Jessica Simpson-Lachey).  The music is so vapid, phoney and devoid of any real content; the lyrics remind me of love notes scribbled on the back of a trapper keeper. I enjoy great, entertaining music like the next person - but this stuff just insults the intelligence.    Come on now?  Why can't people get behind real artists, people with actual talent and interesting things to say?  Not talking depth, but just plain reality?  It's disheartening, one, that this is the kind of stuff the industry seems to always get behind - cash cow potential;  but on the other hand, people buy up this rubbish?  This seems to be one of the hoofprints of our culture: toss anything into the troth and we eat it up.  Maybe it really doesn't matter in the end.  Life is short, so who cares?    Yeah, who cares: buy more, buy now.          www.hopeinamerica.com       
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00019RD1Y	December 20, 2004	1	1	5.0	Exceptional music that can stand alone as brilliant works	 A wonderful, wonderful collection of music.  I always loved the music for both SATYRICON and FELLINI ROMA - to have them available on CD is a treasure beyond belief!  I've always been dissatisfied with only the two minute suites previously available on other Fellini/Rota score collections.  SATYRICON's music definitely creates an other-worldly quality.  Ethereal music that stands up well on its own; seeming more at home in a science fiction film, rather than an exploration Rome's decadence.  In places, you can hear crackles, as if the recording was taken off an LP.  But this is not distracting at all; in fact it seems to enhance the distant mood of the music.        FELLINI ROMA is marvelous!  The score is more ambient and moody, less variant than SATYRICON; however, it creates a dark, dream-like ambiance incomparable to most soundtracks.  The music for the Catholic fashion show is strangely upbeat, very much like the organ music heard in most Roman Catholic churches.    TOBY DAMMIT is the most standard of the three.  It is an amazing work - and one in a long line of film music that is evidence enough of Nino Rota's haunting musical genius.  Playful and dark, it works very well to build and sustain the mood that Fellini intended for the film.  Highly recommended for avid listeners of film music.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00003CXHM	April 9, 2004	1	1	4.0	"drunken prophecies, libels and dreams"	 Wow.  The Sex Pistols?  Never heard a more perfect name for a band.  Immediately conjures up all sorts of images.  Then seeing photographs of the band and the environment they spawned: like walking into a cultural junk shop and finding some wild, interesting things.  Then you hear the music, and you KNOW that things will be all right.  The documentary was like watching a wildly painted, gravelly sounding, busted-up auto running laps around the neighborhood grandstand.  I sat on the couch, popcorn and soda handy - and watched this documentary twice in one night.   Memories of this sort are like a giant bonfire that everyone throws logs on to keep it going.  For the first time, the Pistols toss there own logs onto the fire.  Just the thought of the backdrops, colors and possibilities attached to that time and place are wondrous enough.  It seemed so open, raunchy and ugly that you can run a million scenarios in your head and still have room for more.  The Sex Pistols were at the apex of all this: an accident, a force of nature.   The title alone, THE FILTH AND THE FURY, suggests so much about what you are about to experience.  You are told a story in a chaotic manner, images hurled at you - grainy, black and white concert footage; crazy, young English kids acting like they just don't care; seedy bars, streets and garbage dumps; representatives of various government, media and church organizations.  Lots of news reels and garish lights.  The surviving band members tell their own versions of what happened; their faces cast in shadow to keep you carefully tuned in to the images of the time period.  Essentially a history lesson taught by the people who created, and were created by, the moment.  I thought it was well done - but left me wanting more. But that was OK, too.  Their career was so abrupt, 26 months from start to end - which I think has much to do with interest in them to this day.       "High drama" as John Lydon describes it - is exactly it.  Everything suggested by the Sex Pistols, all the random images and brilliant simplicity of the music just feeds the imagination.  You can't create that kind of magic with high gloss and untouchable superstars.  For my money, Steve Jones was the best interview in the whole thing.  The guy is hilarious!  He seems like someone you'd hang out with for hours and hours at a bar, drinking beers and exchanging war stories.  The commentary by Julien Temple is extremely dull and doesn't add much.  The other punk documentary, if it serves any purpose at all, illustrates where they could have gone wrong in the making of THE FILTH AND THE FURY.  So, you may want to rent first, but you'll probably want to pick up a copy for yourself.  It doesn't wear thin with repeat viewings.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B000059H9C	January 25, 2004	3	3	5.0	roasted pigs in space!	 FELLINI SATYRICON - the first film I experienced directed by Federico Fellini.  I was with two or three other people in a small theater, and remember sitting through the movie with my jaw gaping like a little kid watching cartoons; I was on the edge of my seat.  I walked out and spent an hour or so trying to figure out what the hell it was I just saw?  Favorite scenes: Vernacchio, marriage at sea, minotaur.  I later read that Fellini had always wanted to make a science fiction picture, and SATYRICON was the closest he would come to that goal.  Petronious Arbiter was a Roman scholar and poet who mixed with the courtesans of the emperor Nero.  The remains of his writings are his observations of the world he lived; ultimately, he was "asked" by Nero to end his own life for various insults to the emperor.  A strange, distant world is painted in the fractured remains of the Satyricon.  Fellini used the text as a jumping off point to attempt to imagine a world completely alien to our own (images, sound, everything).  Fueling this tour-de-force of invention is the period of the film's creation - the late sixties.  If not directly quoted in its scenes, the spirit and free form of the late sixties definitely influenced Fellini and company.  BARBARELLA comes to mind as a comparison, in terms of color pallet, bizarre situations and a comic book quality - psychedelia at its finest.  Fellini's interpretation of the Satyricon seems to capture that weird pulse of chaos and the "climate" of revolution; stripping away a mere "classic literature travelogue" approach - and presenting a libidinal sideshow of monsters, perverts, politicians, artists, and other variations of the human condition.  The movie works like a dream, just presenting this river of existence that we follow through the misadventures of the main characters: Encolpio, Ascilto and Gitone.  It's certainly a wonderful work of art and invention, among the best the cinema has provided thus far.  Since its release, major filmmakers have dipped into this film for inspiration - Terry Gilliam, George Lucas, Martin Scorsese, etc.   In the end, Encolpio's desperate way of life leaves nothing behind, except an expressionless face carved in stone amongst other faces.  Life is short and fleeting.  What will people two thousand years from now think of the way we live today?  Trying to imagine a possible inkling of an idea to follow that question was all I could think about after walking out of FELLINI SATYRICON.   So, I'm not sure what you'd call this movie - science fiction?  A comedy?  CALIGULA on acid?  I read [maybe in Playboy] that Fellini was asked to direct CALIGULA, and refused to take the job.  Funny, that.  Certainly SATYRICON is an entertainment of some kind?  Whatever it is - definitely RENT it first.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00000153R	December 21, 2003	3	3	5.0	nervous man with a four dollar CD	 I recently bought this CD brand new.  I knew that it has gone out of print - so put down my other selections and bought this in case I never come across it again at the ridiculous price of four dollars (and change)!  I'm a fan of the original series; I watch it whenever it's on the Sci-Fi Channel.  I was surprised to find this compilation in a local record store?  I was driving home with it in my CD player; the snow was falling, cars passing in and out of the darkness... The music on this CD succeeds in getting under your skin and makes the banal things in life more sinister, more disturbing.  I don't have the show deep enough in my brain to recall scenes as I listen to the music - so in that respect, the music becomes creepier, attaching itself to life around as I listen to it.  Kind of putting me in my own twilight zone, and that's OK.   I highly recommend this collection - if you can find it?     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00003CXE7	December 19, 2003	5	25	1.0	Meditations?	 This movie was lots of fun. The story was so gritty and affecting. I remember after watching it for the first time, I made my own sword from scrap wood & laid into some mailboxes and windshields.  Ancient Rome burned in my heart.  GLADIATOR charges the blood with electricity. The characters are so compelling, deep and human. The villain, played to perfection by Joaquin Phoenix, was pure brilliance.  Russell Crowe dips his hand into the gritty Earth and produces a hero of uncommon, brutal honesty.  The lions, the vicious cheers of a blood-thirsty crowd...  I give this movie exactly ONE STAR.  The story, even for an epic, was compelling for a grand total of five minutes.  The plot blunders predictably along, creating little or no emotional momentum & absolutely no sense of adventure.  Kids in a sandbox could contrive a better story than this piece of garbage.  About an hour into this vacuum, I just wanted Russell Crowe to kill Commodus so I could get back to my life.    Joaquin Phoenix "vexed" me with his paper thin performance as the twisted, impotent usurper.  Perhaps Phoenix can't be blamed for the job he turned in?  They gave him such a narrow, cardboard role to play - a weak foil to the driven, fertile, masculine Maximus.  There was no descent into madness; something vaguely human that would have at least given some dimension to this silly story.    Ridley Scott created a beautiful film.  The cinematography was masterful - like a crazy European car commercial.  A wild, powerful sports car rolls into the coliseum, everyone stops their torturous acting & begins to feel the fine interiors, check under the hood, blare some music and then comment on the trunk space.  Maybe a quick ride to showcase the vehicle's performance?  A lion could sit on the hood and roar a little bit - an obvious appeal to the grunting desire to identify with virility and power that lurks in all of us.  Oh well.  The mass appeal of this bore was a clear demonstration of the famous quote: "a sucker is born every minute."        
A1004AX2J2HXGL	0691008752	December 18, 2003	8	8	4.0	"Please open your books to page one..."	 I've been a fanatic over Federico's work since I first saw FELLINI ROMA in a classroom one Friday night in college.  I came across a poster advertising the scheduled screening; it was an image from one of the last, most unsettling scenes in the film - a very Catholic fashion show.  My interest was piqued enough to spend an evening in a classroom rather than other social pursuits; and what a classroom it was.  I was one of maybe three people in the room that night.  I can't explain in words what I saw on the screen - it was simply incredible.  It felt like my world opened a little bit more; my own dreams and ideas didn't seem quite so ridiculous. I started to hunt down other films by this director, reading articles, reviews, anything.  I eventually came across Mr. Bondanella's book, and found it to be a wonderful companion piece to the work of Fellini.  It reads like a textbook, but his incites into the craft and visions of Fellini are wonderful.  That said, I didn't take his interpretations as gospel - this book provides an excellent jumping off point into understanding Fellini's world - the fantasies and the world that inspired them.     I recommend this book highly to fans of Fellini and students of film in general - a fantastic document.  It attempts, and I think succeeds, to capture the story of a rare kind of brilliance.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	0783228473	December 4, 2003	1	1	5.0	This fish keeps swimmin' in a jar	 RUMBLE FISH.  I absolutely love this movie.  I've read many times about how pretentious and over stylized this is?  Who cares!  Filmmaking isn't always about reproducing reality and making safe, digestible movies for the popcorn public?  A little iconoclasm never hurt anyone.  The movie gets its story across in a superb fashion - creatively and passionately.  In the hands of another production crew, we would have had a lame "movie of the week".  They took a risk with stark, darkly crafted images, German expressionistic set pieces and camera angles and a pulsating soundtrack and score.  Everything feels OFF to the viewer, maybe even forced - because the idea is Rusty James is trying to be like his brother, live in the world of his brother.  But life continues to bang at the door; it's mystery seeping through the cracks of the claustrophobic existence he is surviving from day to day.  He needs to discover the world on his own terms.    The production of RUMBLE FISH flew under the radar, much like another brilliant film distributed by Universal Pictures: REPO MAN.  Both movies address the same subject matter from two wildly different styles and points-of-view.  Rusty James and Otto Maddox are definitely kindred spirits in the stories told through them.  The cast of RUMBLE FISH is fantastic: Dennis Hopper is terrific as the alcoholic father, Matt Dillon is a natural, Mickey Rourke in his best role, Diane Lane is stunning, Vincent Spano brings STEVE to life and Nicolas Cage's hair in this film is way too much.  Also, Stewart Copeland's music works perfectly within the film, and is just as strong on its own.  However, the current DVD edition stinks to high heaven.  Period.  Horribly mastered sound and image.  No extras to speak of?  We get a trailer and those silly PRODUCTION NOTES - in which we have to scroll through on the television.  Awful.  In a case like this, I wish that the CRITERION COLLECTION group would take a look at this one and consider going to work on it.  Otherwise, we'll have to be satisfied it was released at all for our buying pleasure.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00003CWPL	December 2, 2003	111	125	5.0	"But what the hell do they know, I said?"	 If you're reading this, then you've seen this movie or are at least curious what all the hype is about?    The late Stanley Kubrick, the only major filmmaker Lynch has cited as a direct cinematic influence, believed that ERASERHEAD was one of the most perfect "cinematic experiences" created to date.  This movie has enjoyed success on the midnight movie circuit for years, particularly in NYC where it ran almost every night for something like five years straight. I've seen it on big and little screens in three different states.  Insofar as interpretations are concerned, I've long since tossed all that out the window.  In terms of rational comprehension, ERASERHEAD is the fabled big fish that remains brilliantly elusive of any attempts to capture it.     This movie gets better, and more humorous, every time I watch it: in my opinion - ERASERHEAD is the cinematic experience that comes the closest to capturing "dream logic", next to the equally brilliant WAKING LIFE.  If you ever get the chance, watch ERASERHEAD in a movie theater with a great sound system - you will understand why Stanley Kubrick was moved enough to make his statement.  It's like experiencing someone else's dream - the ultimate act of voyeurism?  As if I was granted audience to a demonstration of delicate brain surgery, and catching glimpses of the patient's face throughout the operation (particularly the opening scene).  It creates such a visceral landscape with its dark, peculiar selections of image and sound, that it seems to be constantly reminding you that the "soul" is helplessly sloshing around somewhere inside an organic bag of blood, bone, hair follicles, industrial shrapnel, dirt piles and antique radiators; a terrifying and beautiful delineation of a living creature suddenly made aware of its own being (birth imagery abounding).  It is a perfect symphony of sound and image, amazing work for a first time feature film director!  I've seen this movie placed in the HORROR section at local video stores; it's better suited for the COMEDY section, I fear.  The movie was created on the AFI campus in California; production beginning his last year there, and continuing on for several more years in secret.  Not for everyone, but certainly worth a peek.    I own a copy of ERASERHEAD on DVD, finally.  It is available at David Lynch's website for forty-five bucks plus shipping and handling.  Remastered sound and image, includes a few extras - the standout is a "stylized" interview with Lynch about the making of the film, the characters involved and anecdotes.    BTW - where is WILD AT HEART and LOST HIGHWAY for our DVD pleasure?     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B000077VQC	October 19, 2003	13	13	5.0	God save the Sex Pistols!	 This is a fantastic DVD for any longtime fan of the SEX PISTOLS, anyone curious about the beginnings of English "punk" or anyone just passionate about rock music.  We are treated to candid and relaxed interviews with the important characters involved in bringing this great album to life.   I think this makes a great companion documentary to THE FILTH AND THE FURY; a fine documentary, kind of using the anti-gloss, cut-up approach for highlighting the influences, the rise, the fall and impact of the SEX PISTOLS.  For me, NEVER MIND THE BOLLOCKS has never grown old, the music brilliantly simple.  In addition, knowing the history of the band, it makes the music that much richer.  On this documentary - John Lydon speaks fondly to the comic, almost camp feel at the heart of this album.  Steve Jones laments that if they hadn't kicked Glen out, if they didn't do the Bill Grundy show - there may have been more albums from the SEX PISTOLS.     The bonus material is simply stuff that was excised from the main event of this DVD, because it strays away from the subject of the album itself.  It is possible this was originally aired as a series on television, and they had to trim everything for interest of time?  Whatever the case, I wish they just presented it as a whole - all included.  The bonus material can only be viewed section by section, and that can get tiring after a while.  Not a major complaint, really.   I'm glad I bought this DVD; it provides a fresh view to a notoriously underrated band.  I recommend it highly.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B000005X1J	October 17, 2003	41	44	4.0	The cult of personality!	 Charles Manson.  The name says it all.  You drop the name on anyone, and the reactions will all be the same for the most part.  In addition to the notorious stories recalling the events of 1969 - I always think of Axl Rose wearing the KILL YOUR IDOLS shirt with the famous image of the wild-eyed cult leader.  Charles Manson?  His life is somewhat documented - born to a prostitute and living amongst the shadows of humanity in the streets.  I don't know for sure if he was a genius, more like a very particular breed of person.  Maybe for lack of understanding, he is called a "genius" in the same breath as a "monster".  The fascination with him probably runs along the same lines as the likes of Ed Gein, Jack the Ripper and Ted Bundy.  There is something about these people that operate on very primal levels, parts of the psyche best left buried far beneath culture and civilization? I bought this CD out of curiosity.  I wanted to know what a guy with this kind of mind writes songs about.  What I found was very unexpected to say the least - a voice full of expression, and lyrics that were as spare and direct as the music itself.  A folk-singer from the darkest corners of the American experience, these recordings were completed prior to the events that would make him an icon of sorts.  Just looking over the song titles, you start to see the fragments of a mystery.  I remember hearing an interview with CM, where he states he has been in prison all his life.  And he sings about just that.    I've had a few friends of mine listen to the CD without letting them in on who the artist was.  I heard some interesting guesses: Willie Nelson, Hank Williams, James Taylor and even John Phillips.  They all confessed to actually liking what they heard, and then expressed guilt for actually liking it!  I like it.  I think there's much added to it by the notoriety of the artist - but all in all, not bad music.  There's certainly a rock-gut sincerity here that elevates it above the normal love, tongue-in-cheek, beatnik styles of folk music popular at the time - providing a counter-point to popular styles, even.   I wonder what direction his career would have taken if he was actually signed to a label and promoted: would he have gone all that far anyway?  He doesn't seem like the type of guy that would really bend to the wills of record executives and marketing agents.  Maybe we would have had "punk" a little sooner than later?  Maybe he would have fizzled around 1972, and then get arrested for shoplifting dresses in Florida a few years later?  Lots of maybes.     This music is mostly for the curious, I guess - and you actually might be pleasantly surprised by what you find...     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00000JZXJ	October 17, 2003	18	19	5.0	Ever get the phonograph blues?	 What can anyone say about Robert Johnson that hasn't already been stated?  The music he left us just has that feel of someone who has traveled the humid shadows of the early twentieth century, checked into every dive hotel and motel across the Bible belt, stomped his feet in more than a few juke joints, courted the devil and let everyone know about it, smoked a few cigarettes, drank his share liquor, tasted love and was bitten more than once.  The more you listen, the more your imagination is sparked.   This particular collection showcases the 29 songs he recorded - minus the variations.  If you are a casual listener, this is a marvelous retrospective of the music.  If you are more of a completist, then the critically acclaimed box set is what you want.  To be honest, I'm not a big fan of the blues - in all its various styles.  A few things I like are R.L. BURNSIDE - TOO BAD JIM, JIMI HENDRIX - BLUES and various things from MUDDY WATERS, SON HOUSE and HUDDIE LEDBETTER.  A quote from the CD liner notes by Tony Watts: "If details of Robert Johnson's life are shadowy, there is nothing at all indistinct about his music which is full of the most elemental power imaginable.  Obviously a driven man, he attempted to exorcise his demons through the medium of his songs..."  I sometimes wonder if it's because this guy left so few facts about his life behind, that his music becomes that much better?  The popular story of his life's end is he was poisoned by a jealous husband he had cuckolded, and then buried in an unmarked grave after midnight.  The king is gone but he's not forgotten:  Does the mystery and drama of his short life actually float the music, add to its potency and make it transcendent above what it actually is?  My recommendation is to take a listen for yourself.  For whatever the reason, I can't stop listening to this collection of great songs.  Personal favorites are - HELLHOUND ON MY TRAIL, MALTED MILK, LITTLE QUEEN OF SPADES, IF I HAD POSESSION OVER JUDGEMENT DAY, FROM FOUR `TIL LATE and STOP BREAKIN' DOWN BLUES.  Enjoy.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B000002P4L	October 15, 2003	8	8	5.0	Hypnotic pulse of exotic places east?	 One evening, my friends and I were witnesses to the belly dancer's art in full swing at a local Middle Eastern place.  I always had an idea of what it was like - but the reality was amazing.  It took me away to another time and place.  The music seemed to sweep her around the room like a whisp of seductive smoke and bells.  The belly dancer later told me she usually works with tracks off DIASPORA, in addition to other artists.  The title is a word that refers to Jews living outside the promised land - the dispersed, essentially. I've heard most of Natacha Atlas' music - and will state flat out this is her best, most hypnotic album.  HALIM is my second favorite - and the rest kind of fade out from there.  An artist does what an artist does:  she apparently is moving towards the R&B and hip-hop genres that are popular in the United States and Europe.  Not sure why?  She may be trying to cut her teeth in these styles and try to make a bigger break?  How unfortunate.  If you listen to samples of her later albums, you will know what I'm describing.  Sounds like the junk I hear on European variety shows and MTV.  Wherever her career has been moving toward: DIASPORA is still simply magic - very refreshing, full of a sensual and erotic life all its own.  I wish that Natacha would return to this more traditional style, but alas she has seen the future and it will be... Get DIASPORA and be whisked away.  If you have a work out schedule, enjoy cheesey house music or third-rate hip-hop, then by all means explore her other efforts.  I will stop here, thank you very much.  I had to purchase a USED COPY of this album, as it is now unfortunately OUT OF PRINT.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00000K19E	October 13, 2003	2	5	2.0	Morpheus and Neo's Excellent Adventure	 What's all the ballyhoo about?  Genre defining?  Maybe if the genre was SUCK.  How could 50,000 [MATRIX] fans be wrong?  For every reason in the book.  I guess you have to be hooked up to a hoover vacuum cleaner to really enjoy this useless, dead-fly-on-the-sill, dust-ball-in-the-corner, two-year-old-christmas-tinsel of a movie.  I can just hear one of the ten-thousand copies of THE MATRIX video talking to me as I pass it by in the local rental store, "Why do you hate me?  Why don't you just simmer down..." First of all, Keanu Reeves is about as wooden an actor as you can get.  Even Mark Hamill had some depth playing an everyman, blank slate of an action hero who takes a similar archetypal journey.  I'm just surprised Keanu had brains enough to take the correct pill so this shinola-load of a plot could continue.  But I digress?  Larry "Laurence" Fishburne plays his part like he's recording a books-on-tape version of SENSE AND SENSIBILITY.  I'm surprised, because he worked out so well in SCHOOL DAZE and APOCALYPSE NOW.  But I can't fault the actors really, they were handed this shlock of a script to a movie which has every yo-yo thinking they are better off somehow for having experienced this?  I guess this flick is about as challenging, mentally, as that other over-rated junkpile GLADIATOR.  Does all this cheap philosophy really get the brain tumors worked up?  Its like dropping a shiney object in a pond and watching all the fish clamor after it.  This movie was actually pretty bland and full of holes if you remove the special effects.  I found the references to ALICE IN WONDERLAND heavy-handed and cheesey.  I love ALICE IN WONDERLAND and recommend sitting down to read that book as an alternative to viewing this snooze of a movie.  I was surprised they didn't use the Jefferson Airplane song WHITE RABBIT - or at least have a techno-monstrosity version of it?  Maybe they did and I was too zoned out of boredom to notice.   "Wow, we are really in an faux-reality controlled by the very machines we created?  Sheesh - you don't say?  Better roll out some special effects to put a hurtin' to these roving mongoloid footballs..."  THE ORACLE should have tried cooking up some fried eggs, because the cast was certainly wearing it on their faces.  I guess the only redeeming ounce of quality in this thing was the certifiably cool robo-villain, AGENT SMITH.  I was amazed by him - he was like a DEVO record actualized.  Stomping, in his own special Agent Smith way, on the skulls of our thinly drawn heroes.  I imagined Agent Smith wearing a huge DELETE button around his neck, erasing this movie as he went along.  Then, there were so many of him in the sequel MATRIX RELOADED - THE SEARCH FOR MORE MONEY, I felt certain at least one of the Agent Smiths would have a DELETE button stowed away in his breast pocket?  That would have been worth the eight bucks.  But now I'm obviously getting into SPACEBALLS territory.  I couldn't get this far without offering some alternative selections to cure a paying audience of this infection, now could I?  For starters: in addition to SPACEBALLS, 2001: A SPACE ODYESSEY, EMPIRE STRIKES BACK, BLADERUNNER, ALIEN(S), TOTAL RECALL, STARSHIP TROOPERS, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND, MARS ATTACKS, 12 MONKEYS, THE THING, THEY LIVE!, TIME BANDITS, THX-1138, ENEMY MINE, PREDATOR and ROBOCOP - I offer the darkly brilliant DARK CITY.  Yes, this movie will be observed as slow and boring by the five star gushers here; but in terms of originality, vibrance, and just plain storytelling know-how -  well it leaves THE MATRIX slithering in the dust.  DARK CITY was like Alfred Hitchcock had returned from his deep carbon freeze, slipped on a pair of nice fitting SCI-FI shoes and went to bat for us one more time. So, to answer the video copy of THE MATRIX sitting on the local store shelf, "why do you hate me so?"  Well, I don't hate you.  I just think you are a mindless twerp of a movie that champions every idiotic impulse imaginable in the American psyche.  This thing is about as sophisticated as a Broadway musical.  NEO is a vapid, mindless puke of a character if I ever saw one - and the casting of TED LOGAN in that role was probably the only right move the directors made?  CAPTAIN EO - sorry, I meant NEO - wants to rock and roll so badly, that it hurts.  Better call Deputy Van Halen in to save the day!  This movie deserves half a star - but I gave it two stars only because they represent the two hours of my life I will never get back.  This is the only consolation I could find... for now.   Good luck boys, I'm sure the series will be a hit.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B000024KBA	October 12, 2003	2	3	5.0	Long gone.	 Well, I've been enjoying this album, along with the other two Syd Barrett albums for a few years now.   If you like one, you'll like them all.  Syd Barrett was NOT a genius, but a very talented songwriter who "lost himself a bit", shall we say?    I try to imagine walking into a pub late one night, and suddenly faced with this guy just playing his spacey music to a pair of drunks,  a few empty bottles and a bartender smoking a cigarette.   Pure magic.  The unique music from a guy who seems to have fallen down the rabbit hole and may still down there for all we know.  I remember hearing once he was alive and sort-of well, writing a history of art never meant for public consumption.  It would be a strange come-back for sure.  However, these albums somehow leave blanks for the listener's imagination to fill in.  I've heard REM do a cover of "Dark Globe" - and if nothing else, it amplifies the uniqueness of Syd Barrett.  It was less REM taking a song and making it their own, and more of REM trying to capture the mood of the source material by walking into Syd's territory.  I've heard Skip Spence's album OAR several times;  in comparison to MADCAP LAUGHS, it's musically richer and grounded in something closer to his peers.  But somehow Syd Barrett's music has a charm that the other loonies of rockdem lack:  It's kind of childish, it is kind of love-lorn, sort of romantic tipping back into the tragic.  The albums capture that delicate balance perfectly - amidst all the imperfection.    "Dark Globe" is the definitive Barrett composition - not necessarily the best.  If you need clarity and meaning in music, if you need demographic, if you need a genre and something that is identifiable as this or that - Syd is not for you.  This is one of those curious albums that you come across very rarely.  Like finding an old record in your grandmother's attic and listening to it constantly - a sonic snapshot of a few random moments that will never be again.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B000066EX9	October 9, 2003	11	13	5.0	Keep banging the door.	 Three discs that collect the "Bollocks" album, b-sides, studio out-takes, an entire concert and some rare live tracks:    There is one track, a cover of the Creation's "Through My Eyes" which is more like a warm-up that lasts about a minute or so.  If only they had actually recorded the song full out, it would have been great fun!  Some of the well-known covers such as "Stepping Stone" and "Substitute" are presented differently; the vocal tracks are the same, but the music is an early, rough mix.  An improvement to the over-produced versions previously available.  "No Fun" is pretty much the same, they just cut it off a few seconds later so we get more studio conversation.  Virgin provides some live tracks, in addition to the complete live show, that sound more like set fillers and audience agitation; mostly moaning, improvisation and feedback.  The version of "Belsen Was A Gas" offered is far better than what I heard on the GREAT RnR SWINDLE.    The booklet is great, usual stuff about the Pistol's place in rock history, what they were about, theatrics vs. bare-bones rock, blah blah blah.  The track-by-track commentary by the band is, I believe, pretty much what was published in a later chapter of Lydon's autobiography "Rotten: No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs" and on the KISS THIS CD insert.    If you're a fan, this is really the best collection available.  Hopefully, this will be the last time you'll have to plunk down hard-earned cash to own some Sex Pistol's product.  As they say, the swindle continues.  Enjoy...     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B000005JAC	October 6, 2003	5	5	5.0	punk vs. passion	 First time I heard this album, I was ready to toss it out the window or use it as an ashtray.  I put it away - then pulled it out again several months later when I took a third shift job... the punchline is I love this thing!   I can imagine dark streets, flying carpets and industrial wretchedness.  Perfect!  It sounds like third world music being played on conventional rock instruments.  Lots of sprawling, tribal-like drums coupled with J. Lydon's screeching, odd voice - all other sounds fill the gap between the two.  Lydon's voice seems more at home on this album more than anything else he has done.  "Flowers of Romance" is an aggressive antithesis to popular music of that time.  Not surprising.  I especially love the track entitled PHENAGEN - beautiful, almost religious chanting. I wonder if PIL will ever get their due?  Maybe one those instances, much like the Stooges or VU before them, when twenty years later someone decides this is actually great music?  I'm glad I found out sooner than later...     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00008J4P5	October 5, 2003	1	1	5.0	just wait & stick around...	 I keep thinking this sounds so much like a mutation of T. Rex - instead of the psychedlic/glam thing, we hear blues/punk.  The first time I listened to the White Stripes, I had a wild surge up my spine similar to when I first heard Nirvana; they have related sounds - razored down and raw, which makes sense because they share a similar musical pipeline.   The brand of rock 'n roll here is very visceral,  sometimes sensitive, intensely energetic and just plain cooks without apologies.  Good enough.  Much better than the bucket loads of the rubbish that's been in circulation over the past few years.    Another reviewer denounced the band as sell out material and pandering to the tastes of blank Americans?  Maybe. They're damn fine sounding sell-outs & manage to walk along some interesting fences.   LITTLE ACORNS is one of my favorite tracks off this one, followed closely by Girl you have no faith in medicine, ball and biscuit & the AIR NEAR MY FINGERS.   And so now that they've enjoyed some success after kicking around a few years, interesting to see where they go.  The White Stripes are a band I think I could still be enjoying a long time from now. As a side note: some of the b-sides and rare tracks out there are fantastic & hopefully we'll get a collection of them in the future?     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00004Z4WX	April 4, 2002	5	5	5.0	GREAT MOVIE so-so DVD release	 I agree with all the other gushings about this movie listed here.  I saw it several times in the theater when it was first released, and was simply mesmerized.  Like few other movies, I was involved in the story, felt as if I was floating above it like some waiting spirit.  Jim Jarmusch has some fairly good movies to his credit - this is my favorite.  When will they release "Down By Law" on DVD?  Anyway, "Dead Man" has the standard fair of extras - a couple of deleted scenes, a music video, but no trailer?  On chapter eight of this DVD, the movie seems to get staggered, apparently a bad transfer into the digital format.  It looks as if frames were removed, making the scene (one of the best in the movie) seem like a silent movie.  I returned it several times, and all copies had this problem.  I haven't seen anything out there about this, but I wish they would correct it.  Oh well, I imagine this movie will go out of print in a year or two anyway.  The paying audience should be satisfied it was released on DVD at all...     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B00003CX9S	December 12, 2001	2	2	5.0	life is beautiful!	 Or is it?  I first saw this when I was maybe twelve or thirteen - I was alone in a hotel room somewhere in New Jersey, my parents were out by the pool.  I watched this movie from beginning to end - I was frightened, terrorized and very, very sad - I couldn't really describe what I went through.  I didn't want to watch this thing for years afterward.  Eventually I revisited the movie & it has become one of my favorites.  It is the only film that makes me cry, even to this day.  It is solid proof of the possibility that cinema could be the most powerful artform ever created - the closest to directly describing the carefully blended chaos of the dream.  Mel Brooks - if he made any right decisions in his career - it was hiring on David Lynch to direct this film.  Just as perfect as Tim Burton directing SLEEPY HOLLOW.     
A1004AX2J2HXGL	B000004BPD	November 25, 2001	1	1	4.0	Nino! Fellini!	 I guess they don't make 'em like they used to? This disc is a great introduction to the collaborative effort of Federico Fellini & Nino Rota. The music moves from the exuberant, care-free joy of La Dolce Vita, to the sadness of La Strada, to the strangely moving pieces from Satyricon & Roma - well, each track contains all those moments and more. I'd give this thing five stars - if only they'd have selected longer tracks of music from each film! As it stands, some are mere fragments, and sadly understated. But all in all, worth a listen - if you end up seeking out the complete, original soundtracks - it will definitely be worth the trip.     
